docs/static-files.rst, before:

**********************************
Static Files
**********************************


Overview
=========
The static files pipeline for unisubs has two goals:

- Combine & compress files that are used together (e.g. one html page linking to many css filed) 
- Make sure every time media is processed we have each file with a unique name. This allows us to the set the expire header to the far future, meaning that it will be aggressively cached.
- Each new release won't be cached by clients, since the URLS for each release are unique


Quick how to
============

1. When in development with DEBUG = True all media will not be compressed.
2. You can add media to the any of the bundles on settings.py or create a new bundle if you need a specific collection of media (see bellow)
3. If it's a new bundle add the include in the template (see bellow)

When you want to test the compiled version
1. Set DEBUG to false
2. Run the compile_config, compile_statwidgetconfig, compile_media commands.
3. Run deploy/create_commit_file 
4. Run the compile_media command

Compilation / Minification
===========================
settings.py has a MEDIA_BUNDLES dictionary. Each key sets an id (a unique name for the bundle), with the following properties:

- `type`: Can be `css` or `js` for now
- `files`: a sequence of files to be processed. Files will be processed in the order in which they're are defined on the bundle. They're path should be relative to the MEDIA_URL (i.e. mirosubs/media)
- `closure_deps`: File (inside js) that holds the closure dependencies list.
- `debug`: If true will include the closure-debug-dependencies.js.
- `include_flash_deps`: boolean
- `optimizations`: defaults to closure's more agreesive mode (ADVANCED_OPTIMIZATIONS) else can be set to `SIMPLE_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Files will be concatenated in the order in which they are defined. 

JS will be compiled by the closure compiler at closure/compiler.jar .

CSS will be compressed with the YUI compressor at css-compression/yuicompressor-2.4.6.jar .For css we are only minifinng, but we are not changing anything that might break the site.

In Templates
==================================
In templates, instead of liking to the the individual css or js files, you'd simply::

 {% load  media_compressor %}
 {% include_bundle "[bundle name - the key in MEDIA_BUNDLE]" %}


If `CSS_USE_COMPILED` is True the link to that bundle compressed file will be inserted. Else we'll add the original urls. If a CSS_USE_COMPILED is not set, it will default to the oposite of `settings.DEBUG`.

Compiling
===========================
Compiling should be done with ::

  $manage.py compile_media --settings=[settings file]

Dir layout
===========================
Inside MEDIA_ROOT media will be compiled to `static-cache/[hash of latest git commit]/.
i.e. MEDIA_ROOT/static-cache/21a1bbcc/js/mirosubs-onsite-compiled.js

In this way we use one unique identifier for each revision, in fact, we relly on the one the scm gives us, which has the added benefit of making it easier to troubleshoot revisions and if the links are correct.

Static cache is never in source control and should not be the storage path for anything. It's sole purpose is to be a disposable place where media can be compiled and moved to a unique URL.


Relevant Settings
=================
These need to be defined in settings.py:

MEDIA_URL
----------
Since the location of media is no longer static, the MEDIA_URL takes into consideration the new directory layout. Every time a new git version is running and deploy/create_commit_file.py is ran, the MEDIA_URL will change (and) therefore you need to restart the sever/reload app coder for that to take effect. 


COMPRESS_YUI_BINARY
-------------------
The path, relative to the mirosubs dir where the YUI compressor jar lives( "java -jar ./css-compression/yuicompressor-2.4.6.jar")

COMPRESS_MEDIA
--------------
When true media will be compressd / packed, Both CSS and JS. The default value for this is the oposite of DEBUG.

COMPRESS_OUTPUT_NAME
--------------------

The directory that holds the root to the static cache, i.e. where all compiled and version specific media will be copyed to (see dir layout above). Defaults to 'static-cache'.

Serving Media
=============
On the local development machine or the dev environment media is stored locally in the file disk. Staging and production with Amazon's s3, so in those environments media needs to be copied to s3.

This is achieved by calling::

$manage.py send_to_s3 --settings=[settings module] 

Which is part of the update_static fabric command.
That command requires the USE_AMAZON set (needs correct values for secret, id and bucket), and it will:

- Move the entire content of MEDIA_ROOT/static-cache/[hash guid] . All of these will have far future expire headers.
- Copy and create the files that are used externally (in offsite widgets), namely: ["js/mirosubs-widgetizer.js", "js/widgetizer/widgetizerprimer.js"] to MEDIA_ROOT/js/.... These do not have far future expire headers.

All files above 1kb will be served with gzip compression (smaller files tend to actually inflate ).

TODOS
====
    
- Join all the compile_config... commands with compile media
- Remove all lingering instances of `include _js_onsite... ` and `JS_USE_COMPRESSES`.
- Make compilation fail on any error.
- Find out how to fix warnings for jQuery and others
- Put all binaries that deal with media compression (closure compiler, yui compressor) on the same place

Commit message:

Added parameter to compile one bundle only, and to output the command string.

docs/static-files.rst, after:

**********************************
Static Files
**********************************


Overview
=========
The static files pipeline for unisubs has two goals:

- Combine & compress files that are used together (e.g. one html page linking to many css filed) 
- Make sure every time media is processed we have each file with a unique name. This allows us to the set the expire header to the far future, meaning that it will be aggressively cached.
- Each new release won't be cached by clients, since the URLS for each release are unique


Quick how to
============

1. When in development with DEBUG = True all media will not be compressed.
2. You can add media to the any of the bundles on settings.py or create a new bundle if you need a specific collection of media (see bellow)
3. If it's a new bundle add the include in the template (see bellow)

When you want to test the compiled version
1. Set DEBUG to false
2. Run the compile_config, compile_statwidgetconfig, compile_media commands.
3. Run deploy/create_commit_file 
4. Run the compile_media command

Compilation / Minification
===========================
settings.py has a MEDIA_BUNDLES dictionary. Each key sets an id (a unique name for the bundle), with the following properties:

- `type`: Can be `css` or `js` for now
- `files`: a sequence of files to be processed. Files will be processed in the order in which they're are defined on the bundle. They're path should be relative to the MEDIA_URL (i.e. mirosubs/media)
- `closure_deps`: File (inside js) that holds the closure dependencies list.
- `debug`: If true will include the closure-debug-dependencies.js.
- `include_flash_deps`: boolean
- `optimizations`: defaults to closure's more agreesive mode (ADVANCED_OPTIMIZATIONS) else can be set to `SIMPLE_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Files will be concatenated in the order in which they are defined. 

JS will be compiled by the closure compiler at closure/compiler.jar .

CSS will be compressed with the YUI compressor at css-compression/yuicompressor-2.4.6.jar .For css we are only minifinng, but we are not changing anything that might break the site.

In Templates
==================================
In templates, instead of liking to the the individual css or js files, you'd simply::

 {% load  media_compressor %}
 {% include_bundle "[bundle name - the key in MEDIA_BUNDLE]" %}


If `CSS_USE_COMPILED` is True the link to that bundle compressed file will be inserted. Else we'll add the original urls. If a CSS_USE_COMPILED is not set, it will default to the oposite of `settings.DEBUG`.

Compiling
===========================
Compiling should be done with ::

  $manage.py compile_media --settings=[settings file] [bundle-name(s)]

If you pass one or more bundle names as arguments to the command it will only compile those bundles (useful for testing / debugging), else all bundles will be compiles.

When the --verbosity param is set to 2, `compile_media` will output the cmd_strings passed to the compilers.

Dir layout
===========================
Inside MEDIA_ROOT media will be compiled to `static-cache/[hash of latest git commit]/.
i.e. MEDIA_ROOT/static-cache/21a1bbcc/js/mirosubs-onsite-compiled.js

In this way we use one unique identifier for each revision, in fact, we relly on the one the scm gives us, which has the added benefit of making it easier to troubleshoot revisions and if the links are correct.

Static cache is never in source control and should not be the storage path for anything. It's sole purpose is to be a disposable place where media can be compiled and moved to a unique URL.


Relevant Settings
=================
These need to be defined in settings.py:

MEDIA_URL
----------
Since the location of media is no longer static, the MEDIA_URL takes into consideration the new directory layout. Every time a new git version is running and deploy/create_commit_file.py is ran, the MEDIA_URL will change (and) therefore you need to restart the sever/reload app coder for that to take effect. 


COMPRESS_YUI_BINARY
-------------------
The path, relative to the mirosubs dir where the YUI compressor jar lives( "java -jar ./css-compression/yuicompressor-2.4.6.jar")

COMPRESS_MEDIA
--------------
When true media will be compressd / packed, Both CSS and JS. The default value for this is the oposite of DEBUG.

COMPRESS_OUTPUT_NAME
--------------------

The directory that holds the root to the static cache, i.e. where all compiled and version specific media will be copyed to (see dir layout above). Defaults to 'static-cache'.

Serving Media
=============
On the local development machine or the dev environment media is stored locally in the file disk. Staging and production with Amazon's s3, so in those environments media needs to be copied to s3.

This is achieved by calling::

$manage.py send_to_s3 --settings=[settings module] 

Which is part of the update_static fabric command.
That command requires the USE_AMAZON set (needs correct values for secret, id and bucket), and it will:

- Move the entire content of MEDIA_ROOT/static-cache/[hash guid] . All of these will have far future expire headers.
- Copy and create the files that are used externally (in offsite widgets), namely: ["js/mirosubs-widgetizer.js", "js/widgetizer/widgetizerprimer.js"] to MEDIA_ROOT/js/.... These do not have far future expire headers.

All files above 1kb will be served with gzip compression (smaller files tend to actually inflate ).

TODOS
====
    
- Join all the compile_config... commands with compile media
- Remove all lingering instances of `include _js_onsite... ` 
- Make compilation fail on any error.
- Find out how to fix warnings for jQuery and others
- Put all binaries that deal with media compression (closure compiler, yui compressor) on the same place
